Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started with Compute Engine
25 minutes
Free
Overview
In this lab, you will create virtual machines (VMs) and connect to them. You will also create connections between the instances.

Objectives
In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks:

Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.

Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.

Connect between the two instances.

Task 1: Sign in to the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console
For each lab, you get a new GCP project and set of resources for a fixed time at no cost.

Make sure you signed into Qwiklabs using an incognito window.

Note the lab's access time and make sure you can finish in that time block.

There is no pause feature. You can restart if needed, but you have to start at the beginning.

When ready, click start

Note your lab credentials. You will use them to sign in to Cloud Platform Console.

Click Open Google Console.

Click Use another account and copy/paste credentials for this lab into the prompts.

If you use other credentials, you'll get errors or incur charges.

Accept the terms and skip the recovery resource page.
Do not click End Lab unless you are finished with the lab or want to restart it. This clears your work and removes the project.

Task 2: Create a virtual machine using the GCP Console

Create a virtual machine using the GCP Console
In GCP console, on the top right toolbar, click the Open Cloud Shell button.

Click Continue.

Check the zone which Qwiklabs assigned you.

To set your default zone to that zone, enter this partial command:
gcloud config set compute/zone followed by the zone you chose.

Your completed command will look like this:

gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-a

To create a VM instance called my-vm-1 in that zone, execute this command:

gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-1" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default" --tags http
gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-http -- action=ALLOW --destination=INGRESS --rules=http:80 --target-tags=http

Note: The VM can take about two minutes to launch and be fully available for use.

Task 3: Create a virtual machine using the gcloud command line

To display a list of all the zones in the region to which Qwiklabs assigned you, enter this partial command gcloud compute zones list | grep followed by the region that Qwiklabs or your instructor assigned you to.

Your completed command will look like this:

gcloud compute zones list | grep us-central1

Choose a zone from that list other than the zone to which Qwiklabs assigned you. For example, if Qwiklabs assigned you to region us-central1 and zone us-central1-a you might choose zone us-central1-b.

To set your default zone to the one you just chose, enter this partial command gcloud config set compute/zone followed by the zone you chose.

Your completed command will look like this:

gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b

To create a VM instance called my-vm-2 in that zone, execute this command:

gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-2" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default"

Note: The VM can take about two minutes to launch and be fully available for use.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.

Task 4: Connect between VM instances
Connect to my-vm-2 using this command:

Task 3: Create a virtual machine using the gcloud command line
In GCP console, on the top right toolbar, click the Open Cloud Shell button.

Cloud Shell icon

Click Continue. cloudshell_continue.png

To display a list of all the zones in the region to which Qwiklabs assigned you, enter this partial command gcloud compute zones list | grep followed by the region that Qwiklabs or your instructor assigned you to.

Your completed command will look like this:

gcloud compute zones list | grep us-central1

Choose a zone from that list other than the zone to which Qwiklabs assigned you. For example, if Qwiklabs assigned you to region us-central1 and zone us-central1-a you might choose zone us-central1-b.

To set your default zone to the one you just chose, enter this partial command gcloud config set compute/zone followed by the zone you chose.

Your completed command will look like this:

gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b

To create a VM instance called my-vm-2 in that zone, execute this command:

gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2

Use the ping command to confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:

ping my-vm-1

Notice that the output of the ping command reveals that the complete hostname of my-vm-1 is my-vm-1.c.PROJECT_ID.internal, where PROJECT_ID is the name of your Google Cloud Platform project. GCP automatically supplies Domain Name Service (DNS) resolution for the internal IP addresses of VM instances.

Press Ctrl+C to abort the ping command.

Use the ssh command to open a command prompt on my-vm-1:

ssh my-vm-1

If you are prompted about whether you want to continue connecting to a host with unknown authenticity, enter yes to confirm that you do.

At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:

sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y

Use the nano text editor to add a custom message to the home page of the web server:

sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:
Hi from Justice 

Press Ctrl+O and then press Enter to save your edited file, and then press Ctrl+X to exit the nano text editor.

Confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

curl http://localhost/

The response will be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

exit

You will return to the command prompt on my-vm-2

To confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm-1, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute this command:

curl http://my-vm-1/

The response will again be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

Get the external IP address for my-vm-1, put in the following command:
gcloud compute instances list --zone us-central1-a

Copy the External IP address for my-vm-1 and paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab. You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.

Congratulations!
In this lab, you created virtual machine (VM) instances in two different zones and connected to them using ping, ssh, and HTTP.

End your lab